"Be not afraid of greatness. Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and others have greatness thrust upon them."
"Sweet are the uses of adversity which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his head."
"Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt."
"Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice."
"Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown."
"Talking isn’t doing. It is a kind of good deed to say well; and yet words are not deeds."
"In time we hate that which we often fear."
"To be, or not to be: that is the question."
"All that glisters is not gold."
"Words are easy, like the wind; faithful friends are hard to find."
"The fault…is not in our stars, but in ourselves."
"Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor player, that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more; it is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing."
"Conscience doth make cowards of us all."
"O, beware, my lord, of jealousy; it is the green-ey’d monster, which doth mock the meat it feeds on."
"Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate."
"How art thou out of breath when thou hast breath to say to me that thou art out of breath?"
"I wish my horse had the speed of your tongue."
"Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows."
O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil."
"Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once."
"A fool thinks himself to be wise, but a wise man knows himself to be a fool."
"Now is the winter of our discontent."
"The lady doth protest too much, methinks."
"What’s in a name? A rose by any other name would smell as sweet."
"Cry 'havoc!' and let slip the dogs of war."
"Full fathom five thy father lies, of his bones are coral made. Those are pearls that were his eyes. Nothing of him that doth fade, but doth suffer a sea-change into something rich and strange."
"If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?"
"To thine own self be true, and it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man."
"Neither a borrower nor a lender be; for loan oft loses both itself and friend, and borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry."
"Better a witty fool, than a foolish wit."
"Eye of newt, and toe of frog, Wool of bat, and tongue of dog, Adder's fork, and blind-worm's sting, Lizard's leg, and owlet's wing,— For a charm of powerful trouble, Like a hell-broth boil and bubble. Double, double toil and trouble; Fire burn, and caldron bubble."
